{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13720\viewh12100\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This is a retirement plan offered through an employer where you set up recurring contributions from your pre-tax income into a retirement account. The employer may \'93match\'94 contributions up to a certain amount or percentage, meaning they contribute a certain amount for every dollar you put in. Withdrawals from a 401(k)can begin at age 59.5.|This is a designation that denotes a nonprofit organization. Companies who offer financial assistance are usually more impartial if they\'92re a 501(c)(3) because they\'92re profits are not tied to promoting a single solution that they offer.|This is the most common type of college savings plan parents can use to save up for their children\'92s education. The programs are run by states and educational institutions, but the money saved can usually be used even if your child decides to go out-of-state or to another school. There are usually tax benefits for putting money into this plan.|A professional money manager who can help you with all or part of your personal financial management strategy. If you choose to retain an accountant, make sure they are certified (i.e. a Certified Public Accountant or CPA).|This is an interest rate that is not fixed or set at a certain amount. It adjusts at least once or at regular intervals. This means your interest rate may be higher or lower based on certain economic indicators. This is commonly seen with loans, such as an Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM). These loans are often considered riskier than a fixed-rate option.|The repayment time period of a loan or debt|The measurable increase in value of an asset over time. Some assets increase in value as time passes, such as fine art or collectibles that gain value as time passes.|A standard calculation by lenders to show what the interest rate and fees are on a credit product (loan, credit card, etc.); allows borrowers to compare different loan products. The periodic interest rate applied to your balance every month on a credit card can be determined by dividing the APR by twelve|Payments that are overdue or payments that are to be made at the end of a period|Any item that has significant cash value to the extent it could be sold for a notable payout or used to settle a debt. This often includes property, vehicles, fine art, collectibles, investments, and jewelry.|\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 A terminal found at financial institutions and other places where you can withdraw physical cash using a debit or credit card. When you make a withdrawal with a debit card, you take money directly from your bank account; a withdrawal with a credit card is called a cash advance. In both cases, you will usually incur fees for using the machine.|\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The secondary person on a loan \'96 this person is still 100% responsible for repaying the debt at any time.|Someone who signs on a loan as a guarantor for the primary borrower to the application.|An asset pledged as security on a debt so that if the debt isn\'92t repaid as agreed, a lender can collect the collateral and sell it to recover any money owing on the debt.|
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Period of time where key economic indicators are positive, which usually inspires consumer and investor confidence. The stock market is stable or growing, consumers are buying, companies are growing, and investors are active.
\fs20 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 |Total amount of money it takes for you to survive and live comfortably over a set period of time. Monthly cost of living is what it takes for your household to run effectively.|Economic market condition where stock prices are rising, investment opportunities are strong and key economic indicators are good. This is usually a good time to invest.|This is a period of time where the economy is considered weak. Investors are not investing, businesses are experiencing slow sales and may face closures, consumers are not spending and often turning to debt to get by.|This is a physical cash withdrawal made at an ATM or with a lender or checking cashing store. A cash advance from a credit card means you take out money from your available credit line at a high rate of interest. A payday advance is where you borrow money against your expected income based on proof of income provided through paycheck stubs.|Standard bank account that you use to deposit money and make withdrawals. The money deposited doesn\'92t earn any interest like you have with a savings account, but you can add and withdraw without penalties using checks or a debit card.|The secondary person on a loan \'96 this person is still 100% responsible for repaying the debt at any time.|Someone who signs on a loan as a guarantor for the primary borrower to the application.|An asset pledged as security on a debt so that if the debt isn\'92t repaid as agreed, a lender can collect the collateral and sell it to recover any money owing on the debt.|This is where interest earned over a certain period is rolled in with the principal before the next interest payout is calculated; it\'92s commonly applied to savings and investments. For instance, if you deposit money and it earns a certain amount of interest, that amount is added onto the deposit amount for the next interest assessment.|Total amount of money it takes for you to survive and live comfortably over a set period of time. Monthly cost of living is what it takes for your household to run effectively.|Can mean several different things in personal finance. Credit is commonly used to refer to money a consumer can access in order to purchase goods and services; it is often paid back over a set period of time. Credit can also refer to an amount of money offered as a discount, such as a tax credit or an account credit where you have a discount on a bill.|A company that is licensed to collect and compile information about your financial behavior. In turn, they sell the information, in the form of a credit report, to those authorized to obtain it.|Financial tool that consumers can get based on their credit rating. A financial institution agrees to extend a certain amount of money to you based on your credit score (or based on a deposit you\'92ve made to the institution).|An evaluation of the likelihood of a borrower to default on a loan. Credit reporting companies provide information about your financial behavior to lenders to help them decide whether or not to lend you money. The information may include your payment history, a list of current and past credit accounts and their balances, employment and personal information and a history of past credit problems.|A summary that provides information to potential lenders of the risk involved in extending credit and the probability of repayment. It is created when you start to apply for credit. Contains personal information, to whom and how often you apply for credit, how regularly you make payments and public records (court judgements). Equifax and TransUnion are two large credit reporting agencies.|A bank, government, individual, or other identity that lends money out to people.|Financial tool tied to your bank account(s) that allow you to withdraw money from an ATM or make purchases using money you\'92ve deposited into the account.|A loan obtained for the purpose of paying out other debts.|A company or non-profit organization that helps consumers consolidate their debts when traditional lenders like banks and credit unions are unable to help them. They negotiate an alternative payment arrangement with a client's creditors which either lowers the client's interest rate or the amount of debt that they owe. The end result is that the consumer ends up making one consolidated payment to the agency each month until the agency's program is complete.|Repaying a debt for an amount less than originally owed after a lower repayment amount is negotiated. This typically requires a lump sum of money to pay off or settle the debt once an amount is settled on.|Money you borrow that gets repaid over time, usually with interest and fees added. Closed-end debt is where you borrow a set amount once and then pay it back over time. Open-ended debt means you have a certain limit based on your credit that you can borrow and pay back cyclically.|An individual that owes money.|Money taken out. Money deducted from your paycheck means you receive a lower payout and instead set aside that income for certain purposes, such as taxes or a retirement account. A tax deduction is money that is taken out of the total amount you owe.|Decreasing value of an asset over a given time. Some assets lose value \'96 such as most cars. This means you can\'92t sell the asset for as much as you purchased it for originally.|A type of expense that isn\'92t necessary for you to live and doesn\'92t have a set monthly cost. These are the nice-to-have expenses in your budget, such as entertainment and dining out.|The money a company pays out to its shareholders when the company profits. When the company does not profit, dividends may be paid out of a company\'92s reserves.|The difference between the price for which a property is sold and the total debts registered against it.|Amount of money that could be obtained for the sale of an item given current market prices. Essentially, it\'92s what other consumers would be willing to pay for your item.|This is the credit score ranging from 300 - 850 points that creditors look at when determining your credit worthiness. This helps lenders assess the likelihood that you will pay them back the money you are borrowing from them.|This is a filing option for taxes available to married couples. It means that you file your taxes as a single entity rather than as two individuals.|This is the filing option married couples choose if they don\'92t want to file jointly. Married filing separately means you each file an individual tax return.|A professional who assists consumers with understanding their personal finances and making key decisions about their financial futures. An adviser can help you improve your situation or plan for retirement.|This is the power of attorney you designate to put a certain individual in charge of making key financial decisions for you in case you are incapacitated or unable to make and communicate these decisions for yourself. They handle paying your bills and managing your accounts.|A necessary expense in your budget with a set monthly cost. This are must-pays in your budget that usually have the same cost, such as mortgage or rent payments, auto loan payments, and insurance. These are usually paid first and they\'92re easy to budget for, since you usually know exactly how much money it will cost you.|A necessary expense in your budget that does not have a set monthly cost. Essentially, it\'92s something you have to have, but you can\'92t plan exactly how much it will cost because the expense varies from month to month. This includes things like groceries, utilities, and gas.|The forced sale of property pledged as security for a debt that is in default.|Amount of money left over in your budget once all of your bills and other expenses have been taken out of your income. If your monthly household income is $5,000 and your expenses are $4,000, then you have free cash flow of $1,000.|Amount of money taken out of your income in order to satisfy an owed debt. This usually applies to wages or taxes, although garnishment can also happen with government benefits or assistance. A court usually formally determines that a debt is owed and sets garnishments to be taken out of your income based on the total amount owed.|How much your paycheck is before taxes are deducted.|A person who pledges collateral for the contract of another or who guarantees to pay a certain debt if the original borrower defaults.|Money you earn or bring in each month. It includes paychecks, benefits, dividends, government assistance, and court-ordered payouts such as child support or alimony.|The dollar increase in the price of goods and services that happens over time. It is directly associated with the value of a dollar. When the dollar is weak, inflation occurs more quickly because it costs more to produce goods and services.|This is when a sum that needs to be paid is divided into equal amounts over a set period of time. If you pay for something in installments, you pay a percentage of the full price spread out over a certain number of payments.|The cost of borrowing money, expressed as a percentage, usually over a period of one year.|Any good that is purchased with the intention of earning a profit or getting an eventual payout. This can be a financial entity, such as a stock or bond, or a physical entity such as a piece of property or particular item that you anticipate will gain value over time.|An account you open personally (outside of your employer) for the purpose of preparing for retirement. With a traditional IRA, you contribute pre-tax income with certain rules and regulations for withdrawal. A Roth IRA is usually more flexible, but the contributions occur after taxes.|An account you hold with someone else, usually a spouse. With a joint account you are both liable for whatever occurs.|The formal decision made by a court following legal proceedings.|A method of paying for merchandise through several installments; the merchandise is set aside for the client until it is paid for in full.|A contract granting the use of property for a specified length of time in exchange for a specified rental price.|A fine or fee imposed on your financial accounts due to non-payment of taxes. Essentially, any money put into an account with a levy will be removed for the purpose of settling the debt owed.|Debts owed. It\'92s essentially the money that you or your estate owes to lenders and creditors, including any remaining balances owed on loans related to asset purchases. Subtracting liabilities from your assets determines your net worth.|A claim against an item by another party which utilizes that item as security for repayment of a loan or other claim.|An agreement by a lender to extend credit up to a certain limit whenever the borrower needs to use it.|Assets which can be turned into cash easily, e.g. term deposits.|A set amount of money borrowed from an individual or company that must be repaid over a certain period of time, usually with interest and fees added.|A one-time withdrawal or payout of money. Lump-sum debt repayment means you pay everything back at once, rather than in installment payments over a given period of time. Lump-sum withdrawal means you take all of the money available out of an account, such as your 401(k) or a reverse mortgage.|The power of attorney designated to make medical decisions in your place if you are incapacitated or otherwise unable to make or voice those choices on your own.|A specialized type of savings account that usually requires a higher deposit and balance, but also offers a higher interest rate and yield; there may be other restrictions on withdrawals, as well.|A loan obtained by using real estate as security for the money borrowed. Mortgages are provided by banks, credit unions, finance companies and private lenders. Most require a down payment of 5% - 25%, and will often lend the money for 25 \'96 30 years. The interest rate paid on a mortgage is negotiated for a term that usually ranges from 1 \'96 10 years. Once the term expires, the interest rate must be re-negotiated. Many lenders offer both fixed and variable interest rate terms.|A trade-holding investment program funded by shareholders that gets professionally managed by a third-party service provider. When you invest in a 401(k) or IRA, the money you contribute is usually divided between different mutual funds in order to generate returns on your investment. The money given to a mutual fund may be invested in stocks, bonds, MMAs and other securities.|How much your paycheck is after taxes have been deducted.|A measure of your overall financial wealth. It is determined by subtracting your total liabilities (debts) from your total assets. A positive net worth means that you would have assets left over even after all of your debts were paid off in-full. A negative net worth means the value of your assets are not enough to cover your total debt owed.|An expense that can be planned for your budget because it is not a regularly occurring expense. Things like repairs or holiday expenses are usually considered \'93one-offs\'94 because they fall outside the boundaries of your regular monthly budget.|The extension of credit by a lending institution which allows withdrawals to exceed deposits in a bank account.|Usually a small, short-term loan that is secured by the borrower's next paycheck. The interest charged on these loans is often substantial.|Interest charged over one pay period, as opposed to the annual rate that is charged over a full year. Periodic interest is the rate that gets multiplied by your account balance at the end of a pay period or billing cycle. That period is determined by your account.|Everything that relates to your individual financial outlook, including budgeting, savings, debts, investments, and basic money management. The umbrella term for everything is takes for you to be financially successful.|The sum total of your assets and investments. It\'92s basically an overview of your wealth. A good financial portfolio means you are financially stable with a diversified range of investment accounts and assets that can provide support if you suffer a period of financial distress.|The legal designation that makes an assigned individual responsible for making key decisions on your behalf if you are unable to make or voice those decisions yourself. A medical POA makes key medical decisions, while a financial POA controls your money.|The amount you\'92ve borrowed.|A period of extended economic downturn exemplified with a bust economy, weak consumer confidence, and stagnant business outlooks.|The potential for a financial investment or action to result in a negative outcome, such as a loss of money or a loss of property. Investments usually come with a certain level of risk, based on how likely or unlikely it is that the money contributed will be paid back with returns or lost completely.|A specialized type of Individual Retirement Account where the taxes are taken out now to avoid taxes later when the money is withdrawn. With a traditional IRA or 401(k) the money you contribute is taken out of your pre-tax income, but when you make withdrawals, you have to pay taxes on the \'93income\'94 you receive. With a Roth IRA, you contribute money you earn after taxes, but the withdrawals are tax-free.|A bank account that earns a small rate of interest on any deposits kept in the account. This account is usually used for short-term savings so you have money separate from your basic checking or bank account that\'92s still easily accessible.|Money you have put away for a rainy day. Short-term savings is money you have set aside that grows slowly with low interest added in things like a savings account or MMA. Long-term savings is money you have saved for a future purpose, such as retirement or college savings accounts. This is basically the money you have to depend on in place of income or money borrowed.|Another name of stocks and bonds collectively. It\'92s a financial tool that has cash value and counts as an asset. Securities are issued by companies or governments to individuals who purchase them with the intent to make a profit as a shareholder or bondholder.|A stock exchange where shares of companies are bought and sold by individuals and investment firms.|The money a business raises by selling its shares. Essentially, ownership of a company is divided into bits (shares) that are sold as a commodity or asset. These shares are purchased and when the company\'92s \'93stock\'94 goes up, the shareholders receive a portion of the profits, paid out as dividends.|A sum of money that the government gives you back for an overpayment of taxes. In most cases, whether you\'92re a W-2 employee or employed individually, you give a certain amount of money to the government at regular intervals (i.e. every paycheck for W-2 employees); if it\'92s determined when you file your tax return that you overpaid, you get money back. A large tax refund isn\'92t doing you any favors; you should decrease your withdrawals if you\'92re a W-2 employee and get a huge refund every year.|This is the official filing you have to make to the government that declares how much you\'92ve earned over the past year and how much you must pay in taxes, determined by calculating your income minus deductions and credits. Federal income tax returns must be filed on April 15 every year for the previous year.|The number of months for the current period of the loan.|A security issued by the federal government (U.S Treasury) that has a cash value with a fixed interest rate and set period to reach maturity. In a really basic sense, it\'92s a personal loan you give to the federal government, who then has to pay you back after a certain amount of time with interest added.|An account where you can put money in for another individual, usually with certain rules that govern the withdrawal. Money put into a trust is no longer yours by law; as a result, your lenders can\'92t go after the money in a trust in order to settle your debts. Trusts are often set up for children as part of the inheritance of an estate.|Basic public service you pay for the privilege of using. It includes things like water, electricity, gas, sewage and garbage services, telephone, and Internet. You pay for these services every month to avoid stoppages in your service. These are typically flexible expenses in your budget, because the amount you pay each month often varies.|The sum total of your personal finances. The cash you have plus savings and investments and assets, minus your debts and other obligations. Wealth is formally measured using net worth.|A formal document that defines how you wish for your estate to be divided in the event of your death. Your will must be signed and dated and witnessed by at least two other people who also sign as witnesses; public notary can also help avoid problems with inheritance and division of assets. You can designate certain assets and items to go to certain individuals or entities such as business or charities.|The money you earn from the accrued interest on an investment. The expected yield on a particular investment is another name for the expected rate of return, and it can help you determine if that investment is worth your money.\uc0\u8232 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\
\
}